So the next thing we gonna do is
we want to break that resolver and
those that type deaths variable
that holds our Graph QL schema,
we wanna get those out of
this Apollo server file.
I wanna this Apollo server
that ts file to be boring,
the kind of thing we
hardly ever have to touch.
That's really about wiring
up the express middle wire.
There's a schema that will end up,
altering significantly over time,
it'll be a pretty big file
by the end of the day.
We want that in its own place.
And then this resolver
thing is gonna get very,
very big if we keep it as a single
file similar to, in the Redux world.
If you have all of your reducers and all
of your actions in one place that becomes
like a 2000 monstrosity very quickly.
So that's where we're headed next,
getting the schema out,
getting the resolvers out and breaking
our resolver down into sub objects.
So the first thing we need to do
in order to get our schema and
resolver out or we're gonna
deal with the schema first, but
we need to take the stuff that's in
that GQL tagged template string, right?
And we're gonna move it into a .graphql
file at the root of our project.
Why?
Well, if we're gonna make this
the single source of truth for
any types that are going over the network,
it doesn't really just belong to server,
it belongs to the project as a whole.
And there's a lot of tooling that
works really well on these dot,
schema files and not everything can
sort of strip these special strings
out of a TypeScript code base, so
this enables a wider variety of tooling.
So let's go ahead and make that move.
You can follow the instructions here or
you can kind of follow me as I do this.
But we're gonna go to
our Apollo server TS.
We're gonna grab everything
that's in this string here,
the whole thing, cut it.
I can get rid of this.
And then in the root of the project,
I'm going to create a schema,
that Graph QL and
gives you a few of VS code icons,
you'll see it light up
as a special file type.
That's how you know you did it right.
And I'm just gonna paste that there,
and give it a quick little format.
And there we go.
So that's what we got.
That's part one.
And we've broken our Apollo server now,
right?
We had this typedefs thing,
you can see the file tab is red and
it's unhappy,
this thing's not here anymore.
So the next thing we'll need to
do is import that file into this
TypeScript module so that we kind
of get back to our working state.
And to do that,
we're gonna have to use some packages
called GraphQL tools that will
allow us to perform this import.
So we're gonna add these imports
to that Apollo server TS module.
And these three have to do with
the importing and then this last one,
this is just a constant with the path to
that schema.GraphQL file we just created.
That's defined within the project.
So let's add these imports up top.
You can also clean up this unused import
here, we're not gonna end up using this,
I mean, if you care to do so Great,
and now in our top level module scope,
we're going to create this
loadSchema thing, right?
So this is gonna load the schema and
transform it into the right data
structure and uses a GraphQLFileLoader.
So there are different ways you
could store this information,
there JSON formats for GraphQL schemas,
but we have a dot schema file.
That's that's what this GraphQL
file loader is designed to parse.
So let's put this in top level module
scope right below the imports.
And you can see we used a lot
of those imports just now.
And finally,
we're gonna use this and this,
we're gonna kind of
smoosh it all together.
So instead of passing
typeDefs to Apollo server,
we're gonna kind of
assemble our resolvers and
our schema together and
use that to create our Apollo server.
Delete all the plus signs,
delete typeDefs.
Make sure you bring
resolvers into this object.
This is a little, pull a copy pasted the
diff incorrectly as I was cleaning it up.
So add resolvers to schema,
you should have both resolvers and
schema passed into it.
And if we hit Save, and
if we go back to our API tools here.
I'm gonna reload it just to
make sure everything's, fresh.
And we run that same query again,
everything should work.
So now we're at a state where we have
this nice schema held up at the top
of our project and
we're importing it in and
things are working exactly
as they were before.
Next, we're gonna do something
similar with our resolvers.
So we're both going to get it out
of the Apollo server TS file, and
we're gonna break it up into sub objects.
For now, there's only gonna be
one sub object, but in the end,
we want kind of a central place where,
well, let's say,
in the end we want each top
level collection of resolvers.
And when we talk about a resolver
that's one of these functions here.
We want each family of them to
be in its own TypeScript module.
And then we want one file where
everything's sort of brought together in
alignment with the way the schema is
defined and that's gonna be just sort
of the final wire up step where there's
not much interesting going on there.
It's almost like importing stuff,
assembling it into the object and
reexporting it.
So let's go ahead and
get started with that.
In the source folder of
the server sub project,
let's create a new module
called resolves.ts.
And we're gonna begin by
going into Apollo server,
grabbing this whole resolver thing,
getting it out of there.
Pasting it into this resolver's ts,
and then make it the default export.
And then in Apollo Server,
That's okay, we'll do it the hard way.
Import resolvers from resolvers.
And now, again, I love coming back up for
air very shortly after each of these
steps, that way we make sure
we don't break things and
then write a whole lot
of code on top of it.
Go back to our dev tools here, make that
API call, and it works, still works.
So we've done this quick little refactor.
Now, I wanna break this
out into its own thing.
So we can close ApolloServer Ts,
this file just got boring.
There's not much that's gonna evolve here.
The exception being, we might mess with
this a little bit as we need to put more
things onto that little, that context
object, little caches for certain records.
But the rest of it we're not gonna
touch for the rest of the day,
the rest of the class.
So let's make ourselves a folder
to contain all of our resolvers.
And we'll make one called a module
within that folder called query.
And I kind of like to name
these with capital letters so
that they kind of match
with this convention,
that you see in both the GraphQL schema
and the way the resolvers are organized.
So I'll grab this whole thing and
I wanna to make this.
I wanna make it a variable and
then make it the default export.
And then here we'll use our nice
little enhanced object literal magic.
And we can kind of just have an import.
If we make it this nice capital Q query,
we can very easily just sort of wire it up
cuz that is both the key and the value.
We only have to make it
this one that'll work and
it'll end up looking very nice and neat.
If you like, you could give it
a different name if you want.
And one more time, let's make sure we
still everything's working, great.
So nice to have that thing running and
to not have to stop and
restart our server, right?
So great.
What have we just completed?
Well, our schema is in a separate file.
And our resolvers are now
organized very nicely.
And this is gonna get quite big,
our resolver area, that's where the bulk
of our interesting stuff in this app is
gonna happen, at least on server side.